--- ABOUT CAPOEIRA ---

Capoeira is a Brazilian martial art disguised as a dance and performed to musical instruments and traditional Brazilian songs.
It is comprised of specific offensive and defensive movements and, unlike in other martial arts, the participant is constantly in motion because of the basic movement, the ginga.

The movements also consist of positions on the ground, kicks, sweeps and acrobatics.
Some believe that capoeira originated in Africa, others say that it was formed in Brazil.
The regional style of capoeira originated in the 1930s in Brazil and, unlike capoeira angola, is usually practiced to a quicker beat and kicks are performed in an upright and aggressive style.

Capoeira is best described not as a dance but as a sport in which the participants—historically, sometimes with blades strapped to their ankles or held between their toes—swing their legs high in attack, perform aerial somersaults, and pass within a hairsbreadth of each other’s knees, head, groin, or stomach.
Flexibility, stamina, rapidity of movement, and malicia (deception) are more important than sheer muscular strength.
Although marked by the use of graceful, fluid, and often acrobatic movements as a means to escape rather than block an attack, the “game” of capoeira, as it is called by its practitioners, can nonetheless be lethal when contact is actually made with a well-timed, well-placed blow.

--- HISTORY ---

Capoeira’s history begins with the adoption of African slavery by Portuguese colonists in Brazil.
Since the 16th century, Portugal extensively adopted slavery to man their colonies, coming mainly from West and Central Africa.

Brazil, with its vast territory, was the major destination of African slaves, receiving 38.5% of all slaves sent by ships across the Atlantic Ocean.
Capoeira has a long and controversial history, since historical documentation in Brazil was very scarce in its colonial times.
Evidences, studies and oral tradition leave little doubt about its Brazilian roots, but it is impossible to precisely identify the exact Brazilian region or time it began to take form.

---

Capoeira is an Afro-Brazilian martial art. It was created by the African people who where capture by the Portuguese and brought to Brazil to be slaves in the 1500s.

The slaves were put to work in the field to harvest sugarcane. These slaves created the earliest form of Capoeira to increase their chances of liberty and independence.
They disguised the martial art and fighting techniques as a folk dance and when the slave masters were not looking they would practice the self-defense aspect.
When the slaves escaped, they fled to small villages which they formed called Quilombos. Quilombos dos Palmares was the most famous of the Quilombos, which was lead by Zumbi.

On May 13th 1888 slavery was abolished in Brazil.
The Brazilian government feared the ex-slaves would join force and use capoeira to revolt against the government therefore, a ban was put on Capoeira and anyone known practicing Capoeira would be send to jail.

To keep the tradition of Capoeira alive it need to be practiced secretly and disguised as a folk dance.
In their hidden places, they did their best to keep the tradition alive and by presenting it as a folk art it became more accepted by society.
Capoeiristas were known only by their nicknames, which made it more difficult for the police to identify and arrest them since their real identities were unknown.

Music is a very important element and it help kept the practice of Capoeira alive.
There are instruments such as the pandiero, atabaque, agogo and the most important instrument; the berimbau.

There are two very important Capoeira masters we pay tribute to.
Mestre Pastinha and Mestre Bimba. Mestre Pastinha, whose real name is Vincente Ferreira, is known as the father of Capoeira Angola and for preserving that style.

The other very important Capoeira Mestre is Mestre Bimba. His real name is Manuel dos Reis Machado. He was the one who developed Capoeira.
He is the father of the Capoeira style called “Regional” which is that type of Capoeira we do at here CBP.

The ban against Capoeira was finally lifted;
Mestre Bimba opened is academy in 1932 but it wasn’t until 1936 was it officially recognized by the Brazilian government when he was invited by the government to perform Capoeira for the president.
Today Capoeira is practiced all over the world and it is the 2nd national sport in Brazil!

--- MOVEMENTS ---
--- Ginga ---
The ginga is the fundamental movement of capoeira. It is capoeira’s most recognized characteristic.
Very few martial arts employ a constant rhythmic movement that matches the ginga. One of the few exceptions would be South Korea’s own taekkyeon.

Capoeira Angola and capoeira regional both have distinctive versions of this movement.
In Capoeira Angola, the ginga is free and individualistic, while in regional the ginga has a more structured and defensive look.

Most Capoeira regional academies teach the ginga the same way until the aluno advances to a certain level and begins to develop their own style of using it.
Both are accomplished by maintaining both feet approximately shoulder-width apart and then moving one foot back in a reverse step, returning it to its original place, and repeating with the other foot in a continuous triangular step.